

1. Completed first phase of Live Migration from writting reserach paper
   to create a standard that reflects the research paper findings and
   architecture. Only 2% of research paper ends up being the part of
   standard, my research paper is one of them.
2. Submitted patches for for 3 RFCs for DMA API work.
   Help debugged problems faced in Leon's code.
3. I was selected by NVM Express working group to represent NVMe TWG at
   FMS along with MSFT/Google and accepted Most Innovative technology memory 
   technology award. I was invited on the Live Migration panel discussion
   to represent NVIDIA with MSFT and Google.
4. Negotiated blktests devops for NVMe tree with Jakub.
5. Providing necessary help to NVMe TCP Team with code Reviews, upstream
   strategy discussion, blktest reviews that are needed to merge the NVMeOF
   TCP offload patches.                                    
6. Represented NVIDIA at FMS, SNIA SDC, and OCP in terms of Live Migration
   discussion future of storage discussions.
7. NVMe SoC Architecture standardization.  
   Leading the Standardization and architectural reviews in NVIDIA.
   Leading the design and standardization meetings with MSFT.
   Creating a standardization strategy.
   Heavily involved in Architecture review.
   Mentoring emulation team to build development platform with regular meetings
   -Creating a basic skeleton for emulation                 
   -Closing the gap between MSFT meeting and standardization issues
                                                           
8. Review, test, and fix any problems in the merge window to make sure the
   stability of the subsystem, making sure NVMeOF subsystem is working for
   our existing RDMA networking products and upcoming ones for TCP offload.

   Regular cleanup patches and regular upstream maintainer work.
   Running the NVMe/Storage Kernel development ecosystem mailing list.

   Actively participating in the different discussion on the linux-block,
   linux-nvme, linux-fsdevel, linux-scsi and linux-virtualization.

   Being an active kernel maintainer and leading storage developer on
   multiple mailing lists received an LSFMM invitation for the reviews and
   kernel work done in past year.

   Upstream NVIDIA Storage stack contribution/development:-
   Review patches going into the NVMe-PCIe and NVMeOF Kernel subsystem from
   NVIDIA. Provide internal reviews and get the patches in good shape before
   they go upstream so they will be accepted faster, also review every single 
   patch going into userspace ecosystem such as nvme-cli/nvmetcli/blktests/QEMU
   NVMe from NVIDIA. 

Noteble achievements :-
-  NVIDIA Live Migration Architect did not find anything problematic on the
   final TP text that was sent to ratification apart from few cleanup comments.
   This shows my proficiency and technical expterties in Live Migaration 
   project.
-  In very short time I was able to take the control the SoC Encryption project
   and move it in the right direction by leading the overall development and
   standardization strategy, actively engagging with our client MSFT in order 
   to implement the SoC standardization strategy that fits the NVIDIA's SoC
   development goals. see the Lead Architect's feedback below [1].
-  NVMe adming strongly recommended that I should apply for more a prominent
   role and try to get elected on the technical board. This strategic counsel
   underscores the recognition of our expertise and influence, emphasizing the
   value we bring to the table in shaping and steering the technical landscape
   within the NVMe community. This recommendation positions NVIDIA at the
   forefront of key decision-making processes, ensuring our active involvement
   in shaping industry standards and reinforcing our commitment to technical
   leadership. 
-  Negotiated next steps with Oracle for the Live Migration and agreed on
   creating NVMe Profile 
-  Negotiated next steps with Senior Kernel maintainers about Live Migration
   at LSFMM 2024.
-  Conducted BoF session of the DMA API work that Leon is doing at LSFMM 2024
   and got the positive feedback from community.
-  Based on significant contribution in the industry I've been nominated 
   to oversee the development of the Adaptive Namespaces.

Future goals:-

1. Work on Phase II of the Live Migration including TP/TPAR development
   to coding and create patches for linux kernel and QEMU.
2. Lead the SoC Encryption project and take to completion.
3. Work with CJ Newborn on NVMeNext project that includes NVMe + GPU.
4. Conduct regular meetings with TCP offload team and monitor progress.
   As soon as current issues resolved work on getting it upstream.
   The patch-series on V22 much closer to merge than last year. 
5. Work on ongoing nvmetcli, nvme-cli, blktests, QEMU issues and code
   cleanup to keep the NVMe tools ecosystem stable.
6. Work on linux-nvme, linux-block, linux-fsdevel linux-virtualization,
   linux-vfio and review patches. 
9. NVIDIA Specific feature requests from Vendors.
10. Represent NVIDIA in LSFMM and lead the discussion for following
    sessions :-
    blktests and devops integration we are doing for NVMe TCP offload series.

-ck

[1] Andrew Elias <aelias@nvidia.com> Feedback on SoC Encryption project :-

Subject: RE: Request for work review
Date: Mon, 25 Nov 2024 01:23:54 +0000
From: Andrew Elias <aelias@nvidia.com>
To: Chaitanya Kulkarni <chaitanyak@nvidia.com>

I am currently working with Chaitanya on the Bitlocker proposal which involves
supporting AES-XTS encryption/decryption with an NVMe device. Chaitanya, whose
has deep knowledge in the area of NMVe driver design and is an active member of 
the NVMe WG has provided valuable insight and technical information to myself
and the team as we put together the final proposal. As key NVMe expert, 
Chaitanya has help us evaluate the following:

- our design choices and the impact to the NVMe specification
- how to proceed with the NVMe WG and identify strategic partnerships
- identify the future roadmap and which parts NVMe WG can own (and which parts
  may need to be owned by another standards group)
- participating in discussions with MSFT Bitlocker expert
 
NVMe expertise within NV is very limited so Chaitanya's expertise has really
helped me and the team build confidence that we are moving down the right path.
We have been moving quickly, so I appreciate Chaitanya's quick response and 
willingness to accommodate last-minute meetings.
 
I look forward to continue working with Chaitanya and his help to drive the NVMe
security protection for Nvidia.
 
